GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: Open
just 30 minutes,
China's stock market shuts down
again to stem
major losses, driving investor
skittishness
across the globe.
Also ahead: how the race for the
White House
is playing on and off the air.
We dissect
the ads, and the money.
And a new true crime
documentary, "Making
a Murderer," raises questions
about justice
in America.
Plus, the economic science of
altruism, or
why it pays to be good to
others.
ELIZABETH DUNN, University of
British Columbia:
What we found is that people
who'd been randomly
assigned to spend this money on
somebody else
felt better by the end of the
day than people
who'd been assigned to spend
that same small
amount of money on themselves.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: Call it the great
fall. An explosive
new sell-off hit the Chinese
market today,
and routed stocks around the
world. On Wall
Street, the Dow Jones industrial
average lost
392 points to close at 16514.
The Nasdaq fell
146 points, and the S&P 500
dropped 47. We
will look at what's going on in
China right
after the news summary.
And in the day's other news, a
powerful truck
bomb in Libya killed at least 47
people and
wounded more than 100 others.
The target was
a police training center outside
Tripoli,
where hundreds of recruits had
gathered. Cars
lay crushed and strewn around
the area after
the blast. It was the country's
worst bombing
since the fall of Moammar
Gadhafi in 2011
and it was quickly condemned.
MOHAMMAD ISMAIL, Government of
National Salvation
(through translator): We confirm
that we are
totally committed to carrying
out a full investigation
and following developments and
updates and
providing full disclosure that
deals with
this cowardly terrorist act.
GWEN IFILL: The government based
in Tripoli
is an Islamist regime. A rival
government
operates in Eastern Libya, along
with various
armed factions.
In Yemen, dozens of Saudi
airstrikes hit the
capital city in the heaviest
bombardment yet.
The Saudis and other Sunni Arab
states are
supporting Yemen's president
against Shiite
rebels. Today's attacks hit the
presidential
palace in Sanaa and a rebel
military base.
Meanwhile, loyalist forces also
landed at
a key port overnight, opening a
new front.
Iran claimed its embassy in
Sanaa was hit
by the airstrikes, but there was
no visible
damage.
Paris spent a tense anniversary
today, one
year since Islamist gunmen
attacked the satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo, killing
11 people.
The city was already on edge
when an apparent
suicide bomber, with a note
referencing the
Islamic State group, confronted
police.
Alex Thomson of Independent
Television News
reports from Paris.
ALEX THOMSON: It's around midday
in the Gare
du Nord in Central Paris, and a
young man
carrying a butchers hatchet,
shouting Allahu
akbar and wearing what looks
like an explosive
belt approaches a small police
station.
MAN (through translator): I
heard gunshots,
four, I think. It's just across
the street
from the school, next to the
police station,
where there's a kindergarten.
WOMAN (through translator):
Usually, I see
this on the television. And it's
true, it's
shocking to see this unfolding
live.
ALEX THOMSON: It's a busy area.
People quickly
surrounded the body before it
was eventually
stretchered away, but only after
a remote
controlled approach to what was
initially
assumed to be a real suicide
belt device.
We may well never know what this
man's motivations
were, nor if he had any real
connection with
I.S., or Da'esh, but after the
events in recent
months, not just in Paris, but
across Europe,
anybody approaching armed
officers with a
butcher's hatchet, apparent
signs of an explosive
device, and shouting allahu
Akbar, is signing
their own death warrant.
All of this a year to the day
from the massacre
across town at the satirical
magazine Charlie
Hebdo -- the journalists killed
there remembered
today. And whether this man
actually had any
connection to I.S., the
president of France
spoke today as if the incident
had been masterminded
in Raqqa.
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE, French
President (through
translator): Inside France, we
are tackling
it by hunting down terrorists,
dismantling
networks, drying up sources of
financing,
and by blocking the propaganda
of radicalization.
ALEX THOMSON: Later in the day,
the interior
minister, Bernard Cazeneuve,
visited the scene,
expressing solidarity with
police officers.
Paris remains understandably
edgy, and today's
incident merely underscores
that.
GWEN IFILL: The Charlie Hebdo
killings last
January were followed by the
attacks in November
that claimed another 130 lives.
South Korea is firing up its
cross-border
propaganda broadcasts against
the North again.
Today's announcement came a day
after North
Korea tested what it said was a
hydrogen bomb.
The South's earlier broadcasts
ended in August
in a bid to ease tensions with
the communist
North. They're due to resume
tomorrow, the
birthday of North Korean leader
Kim Jong-un.
Back in this country, there's
word that efforts
to extend health insurance
coverage to all
Americans stalled in 2015. A
closely watched
survey out today finds nearly 12
percent of
U.S. adults still lacked health
coverage at
the end of the year. The
Gallup-Healthways
Well-Being Index says that was
virtually unchanged
from 12 months earlier.
And 2015 officially goes down as
the second
warmest year in the United
States since they
started keeping records 121
years ago. The
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration
reports the average temperature
was 54.4 degrees.
That's about one degree shy of
the record,
set in 2012.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
why China's
stock market is plummeting;
who's spending
how much, and for what, in the
2016 race for
the White House; what's not in
the new national
dietary guidelines; and much
more.
In just 29 minutes today,
China's stock market
plunged 7 percent, and then was
shut down
altogether for the day. It's the
second time
in just four days the China
markets have crashed
badly, sending major ripples
around the world,
including on Wall Street, where
the Dow dropped
nearly 400 points, and continued
a two-week
slide.
Let's look at what's behind the
great fall
in China with David Wessel,
director of the
Hutchins Center on Fiscal and
Monetary Policy
at the Brookings Institution. He
is also a
contributing correspondent to
The Wall Street
Journal.
David, help us puzzle this out.
China's economy
or at least its markets are not
that big,
but the reverberations certainly
were.
DAVID WESSEL, The Wall Street
Journal: That's
right.
China's economy is pretty big.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
DAVID WESSEL: And I think the
one thing that's
going on here is that people are
saying, uh-oh,
the Chinese economy might be
slowing more
than we thought and the
government is having
a hard time stimulating it
again.
So, that's one thing. There's
worries about
that. But you're absolutely
right. China's
stock market is not very big.
And yet when
stock market has a bad day in
China, it seems,
Europe has a bad day and then we
have a bad
day.
GWEN IFILL: What's that
connection between
a 7 percent drop in China and a
400-point
drop here?
DAVID WESSEL: I think it's hard
to understand
in economics. It's easier to
understand on
psychology.
It's a kind of panic or a sense
that the world
economy is just not in as good
shape as we
thought and so everybody is
chasing everybody
else.
GWEN IFILL: And that is
something in which
this psychological panic is
always what drives
markets, not necessarily
anything that makes
any other kind of economic
sense.
DAVID WESSEL: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
But there is the fact that --
people have
had a lot of confidence that the
Chinese leadership
could fix what is wrong with
their economy
so it wouldn't have ripple
effects around
the world. I think that
confidence is being
shaken by how difficult it is
for them to
manage their stock market and
their currency.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let's talk
about managing
the currency that was part of
the solution
here, which is to let the
currency fall. But
that seems to be making it
worse?
DAVID WESSEL: Right.
I think it was seen as a symptom
that the
Chinese leadership may be really
scared about
their economy. Why would they
want their currency
to fall? Well, the only reason
you would want
your currency to fall, if you
could control
it, is in order to get more
exports. Why would
you want to depend more on
exports if you're
a country that has a stated
policy of relying
less on exports and more on
consumer spending,
domestic spending?
They must be worried about
consumer spending
not being as strong as they had
thought.
GWEN IFILL: And then stopping
trading mid-trade,
that -- I remember when that
happened on Wall
Street here, and it sent
complete panic throughout
all the investors here.
DAVID WESSEL: I think the
Chinese are really
amateurs when it comes to
running markets.
GWEN IFILL: Ah.
DAVID WESSEL: They don't really
believe in
markets. They like stability,
they like control.
So we have circuit-breakers here
and if the
stock market falls some, we take
a pause in
trading, but in the U.S., stocks
have to fall
20 percent before we shut down
trading for
the day.
The Chinese shut down trading
after only 7
percent. And I think what they
put in as a
way to make people collect their
wits, cool
down a little bit, has, instead,
accelerated
panic. I wouldn't be at all
surprised if they
change the rules.
GWEN IFILL: Do you expect that
there will
be continued volatility there as
well as here?
DAVID WESSEL: Well, nobody
really knows what
the market is going to do, but
it sure looks
like we are going to have a lot
more volatility.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
DAVID WESSEL: At some point,
people may decide
that the U.S. stock market has
fallen enough.
After all, the U.S. economy
seems to be getting
better, that what happens in
China is not
going to have that devastating
effect on car
sales here or how many people
buy Apple phones
or what happens at -- how many
people shop
at Wal-Mart.
It may be that the U.S. stock
market starts
to rise if people think it's
gone far enough.
GWEN IFILL: But you have alluded
to the fact
that people are worried that is
not what is
happening with the Chinese
economy, that in
fact it may not be that
resilient.
DAVID WESSEL: Right. That's the
fear.
People have put a lot of faith
in the government's
ability to get growth going in
China. People
have this, what I think,
illusion that there
are six people in China who
really have their
hand on every button. And what
we're learning
is, it's a very big economy and
they're not
that good at it.
So, people's confidence in their
leadership
has been shaken. If the
government can't get
the economy moving again, they
have a lot
of fundamental problems. They
may now show
through.
GWEN IFILL: Is there a way to
draw a loop
between what's happening in
China's economy,
what is happening here, and what
is happening
with the depressed price of oil
around the
world?
DAVID WESSEL: Yes. Yes, there
is.
I think oil prices are down for
two reasons.
One is, there is a lot of
supply. There is
a lot of supply because the U.S.
now produces
a lot of oil and there is a lot
of supply
because the Saudis seem to want
to produce
a lot of oil, maybe to punish
the Iranians
and the Russians.
But there is also a concern that
there is
a lack of demand of oil. And so
when commodity
prices fall, it's good if you
happen to be
a consumer, but it's sometimes
seen as symptom
of a weakening economy. So I
think that exacerbates
the feel that maybe China is
slowing down.
That means it will be buying
less from Africa
and Latin America. That means
Procter & Gamble
and Coca-Cola will sell less in
Latin America
and Africa. And so it is
definitely related.
GWEN IFILL: Fascinating.
David Wessel, thanks, as usual,
for clearing
it all up for us.
DAVID WESSEL: You're welcome.
GWEN IFILL: One sign that
presidential primaries
are near, candidates are
starting to ramp
up their TV ad spending.
Political director Lisa
Desjardins takes a
look at the mountain of cash
being spent on
ads, and whether it's worth it.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
I'm Marco Rubio.
LISA DESJARDINS: The much-used
and often reviled
campaign ad faces a real test in
2016. First,
the sheer numbers could break
records: Some
experts estimate we will see an
astonishing
$4.4 billion in political TV
ads. But ads
so far have not brought results
for some.
JEB BUSH (R), Presidential
Candidate: Serious
times require serious
leadership.
LISA DESJARDINS: Republican Jeb
Bush has spent
more on ads than any other
candidate, but
he is stalled in fifth or sixth
place.
PETER FENN, Democratic
Strategist: I have
to say it's pay more, get less.
TV advertising
is not nearly as effective as it
once was,
especially high-level races.
LISA DESJARDINS: Peter Fenn is
president of
Fenn Communications and has
worked in over
300 campaigns.
PETER FENN: Jeb Bush's idea
initially was
to buy a lot of advertising, to
use the $100
million that he'd raise for the
super PAC
and to flood Iowa and flood New
Hampshire.
LISA DESJARDINS: It has not
worked yet. But
front-runner Donald Trump is
trying ads nonetheless,
launching his first this week.
NARRATOR: Donald Trump calls it
radical Islamic
terrorism.
LISA DESJARDINS: With dark
colors and striking
music, the spot talks of fears,
but it may
also address one of Trump's
worries.
PETER FENN: I think his fear is
that he needs
a strong turnout. If people
don't see him
in paid ads, don't see him going
all out in
these states, it might
discourage some of
his voters from voting.
LISA DESJARDINS: Another ad with
strong tones
from Ted Cruz using a visual
metaphor at the
border.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
I understand that when the
mainstream covers
immigration, it often doesn't
see it as an
economic issue.
PETER FENN: Cruz, I think with
his ad this
time of people dressed in suits
and women
in high heels walking across
what would be
the border, visually, people now
are looking
for more creativity in their
advertising.
LISA DESJARDINS: Contrast those
hard-hitting
ads in the crowded GOP race with
the approach
in the smaller Democratic field,
which is
more biographical.
NARRATOR: Praised as one of
America's best
mayors, who governed as a
pragmatist.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
When I think about why I'm doing
this, I think
about my mother, Dorothy.
LISA DESJARDINS: Both of those
got big play
online. But Fenn says 70 percent
of campaign
ad dollars still go to on-air.
PETER FENN: My sense is, this is
changing,
but we're still going to see, in
this election
cycle, television will be king.
LISA DESJARDINS: But for all the
dollars it
brings, we don't yet know how
much television
will influence the choice for
president.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
GWEN IFILL: We follow the money
now with Matea
Gold. She's a national political
reporter
for The Washington Post.
Matea, you have covered a lot of
these campaigns,
as have I. We're not going to
say how old
we are. But compare this to last
cycle. How
is the money being raised
differently and
spent differently?
MATEA GOLD, The Washington Post:
So, what
we have seen in this cycle is
the real full
flowering of the super PAC
effect, and nearly
every presidential candidate,
with the exception
of Bernie Sanders and most
recently Donald
Trump, are running with the
support of super
PACs this time.
And that's changed everything.
That's changed
the way they have gotten in the
race, how
they have raised money, and it's
changed the
way money is being spent. And
already through
mid-December, we saw more than
40 percent
more ads on TV than in the last
cycle at that
point. And eight out of 10 of
those ads were
by outside groups.
GWEN IFILL: And as Lisa pointed
out in her
piece, it's not biographical.
It's not let
me tell you who I am anymore.
MATEA GOLD: Well, one of the
things that I
think we're seeing in the
Republican contest
is, because it is so incredibly
competitive,
and it's really been focused on
issues about
terrorism and ISIS, that those
issues have
really come to the fore in the
advertising
much sooner than I think you
usually see at
this point in a campaign.
GWEN IFILL: So who benefits so
far, especially
in the crowded Republican field,
from this
approach? For whom is this
approach resonating?
MATEA GOLD: Well, I think there
is a really
big question about whether the
super PAC is
going to be the real panacea
that some people
thought it was going to be in
this election.
We already saw two candidates,
Scott Walker
and Rick Perry, forced out of
the contest,
even though they had millions of
dollars left
in their super PACs. There is a
real question
about whether you can succeed
with the support
of super PACs or whether you
need really more
substantial resources in your
campaign.
GWEN IFILL: Well, so then,
explain for us
just one example.
When Jeb Bush -- you wrote about
this in a
big piece in The Washington Post
this week.
When Jeb Bush got into the
field, people thought
he was going to be able to do
what his brother
did, clear the field by the
sheer amount of
money he raised. He raised the
money, but
he clearly didn't clear the
field. What happened?
MATEA GOLD: Money is very
different in this
election than in past elections.
In the past, it's been seen as a
predictor
of success. When money comes,
there's also
a sense that there is a
grassroots support
behind that. Now that donors
that are incredibly
wealthy can give these massive
donations,
it's not necessarily indicative
of any deeper
support.
So, one of the challenges I
think that Jeb
Bush has had is translating the
support he
has among the millionaire class,
who really
put in amazing amount of
resources in the
super PAC, to support on the
ground. And so
while he had a huge amount of
money, other
candidates also had their own
billionaires
supporting them, and they
weren't scared away
by his coffers.
GWEN IFILL: Another example, Ben
Carson was
raising money hand over fist for
a while.
And it was reflecting his
standing in the
polls. Now his standing in the
polls has dropped.
Is it because he didn't spend
the money correctly?
MATEA GOLD: Well, he still is
raising a substantial
amount. He raised $20 million in
the last
quarter.
One of the things that online
fund-raising
allows you to do is reach out to
a cohort
of non-traditional donors. These
aren't professional
donors that get involved in
party politics.
Ben Carson brought a lot of new
people into
the process. And it looks like a
lot of them
are still giving him money.
GWEN IFILL: But how is he
spending it?
MATEA GOLD: Well, a lot of that
money has
gone back into raising more
money. And we
are going to get some more
details about his
finances when the reports come
out at the
end of this month. But that is
going to be
a real indicator of a campaign's
success,
how much cash they actually have
left on hand
heading into this last final
stretch.
GWEN IFILL: We talked about the
billionaires.
What is it? Bernie Sanders calls
them the
millionaires and billionaires.
Who are they this time? Are they
spending
their money differently? Last
time, I remember
Sheldon Adelson kept Newt
Gingrich in the
race simply by writing a check
for a long
time, and I think also Rick
Santorum. And
last time, we saw Ron Burkle,
another millionaire,
giving money to the Clintons.
This time, he
is supporting John Kasich, at
least for now.
That seems to be a different --
I don't know,
just a different way of
organizing this.
MATEA GOLD: One of the things
that's so interesting
is that the donor class has
expanded. We're
seeing new names that are not
your traditional
political givers.
Some of the biggest backers of
Senator Ted
Cruz are a family in Texas, the
Wilks brothers,
who have made a lot of money
through fracking.
And they have put together $15
million worth
of contributions into a super
PAC supporting
Ted Cruz.
And so a lot of folks who are
not bold-faced
names in the political world are
getting engaged,
in part because there are these
new mechanisms
for them to do so.
GWEN IFILL: Well, and here is
something that
is completely different than
anything we have
seen before, which is, of
course, is the rise
of Donald Trump before he had
even spent a
lot of money. And even though
now he's starting
to put ads on the air, it seems
like he's
changed the formula as well.
MATEA GOLD: The Trump impact has
completely
transformed how money is being
spent and whether
it's even effective this time.
His rivals complain he's
basically getting
free airtime. And so their paid
media is not
going to be as potent, because
he's getting
even more airtime just getting
on cable news.
That is going to be a real
question. He's
started to spend money now, but
will he actually
be able to succeed largely
through earned
media?
GWEN IFILL: Is this something
that the candidates
are scrambling to counter,
specifically to
do with Trump or specifically to
do with his
approach, by maybe, I don't
know, talking
about issues?
MATEA GOLD: The issues are
different in each
part of the race, and obviously
the Republicans
right now are trying to really
outdo each
other with warnings about the
threats facing
America.
That seems to be consuming the
Republican
electorate right now. I mean,
concerns about
ISIS and terrorism have
overtaken, we have
found, concerns about taxes and
health care
in the polls. So, whereas
Obamacare looked
like it was going to be a
driving issue, right
now, that's not something that
gets as much
attention, at least not on the
air.
GWEN IFILL: Who does that
benefit and who
does that hurt so far, at least
in fund-raising?
MATEA GOLD: Well, in
fund-raising, we're going
to see at the end of this month,
but I think
Ted Cruz and Ben Carson have had
the most
success in their campaigns, and
Donald Trump
is doing the best in the polls.
GWEN IFILL: OK. Well, we will
see how it shakes
out when people actually start
to vote very
soon.
MATEA GOLD: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: Matea Gold of The
Washington Post,
thank you.
MATEA GOLD: Always a pleasure.
Thanks.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": how
doing for
others benefits you; lifelong
consequences
of segregated schools; and the
Netflix phenomenon
that takes true crime to a whole
new level.
But, first, in issuing
guidelines for how
we should eat for the first time
in five years,
the federal government revises
some of its
longstanding advice.
Hari Sreenivasan has that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Despite all
the warnings
over the years, you may be
surprised that,
for the first time, the
government put a limit
on added sugar, saying it should
comprise
no more than 10 percent of your
daily calories.
The guidelines also dropped
prior advice about
limiting or avoiding cholesterol
and eggs.
The government warned about
eating too much
protein or red meat, but stopped
short of
what some experts wanted. And it
said moderate
drinking of alcohol or coffee is
OK.
To help guide us through some of
these guidelines,
their impact and the
controversy, I'm joined
by Allison Aubrey, food and
health correspondent
for NPR.
So, Allison, let's start with
sugar first.
ALLISON AUBREY, NPR: Sure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What is the
right amount
of sugar? And put it in terms I
can understand.
ALLISON AUBREY: Sure.
Well, basically, the dietary
guidelines are
coming out and saying you should
get no more
than 10 percent of your calories
per day from
sugar, and that translates to
about 10 to
12-teaspoons per day. Now, keep
in mind, this
adds up really, really quickly.
It translates
to about maybe 40 grams of
sugar. That's the
unit of measurement that people
are used to
seeing on labels.
So, for instance, this morning,
I had a yogurt
for breakfast that had about 20
grams of sugar.
You had one sort of sugary drink
or one muffin,
you're at your daily limit. And
basically,
right now, Americans are eating
about twice
as much. We have reported on
studies that
show that many Americans are
eating 22 teaspoons
a day.
So if people are going to start
following
these recommendations, it really
means cutting
consumption of sugar in half.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
maybe that will
help keep my New Year's
resolution going.
So, let's also talk about the
change, it seems,
about eggs and cholesterol. Why
the change?
ALLISON AUBREY: Well, it's been
sort of evolving
nutrition science, I would say.
There used to be a belief that
if you were
to eat a lot of cholesterol-rich
foods, so
animal-based foods with
cholesterol, think
of eggs or shrimp, that that
high cholesterol
would lead to high LDL
cholesterol in your
bloodstream.
So there is still clearly a
concern about
elevated cholesterol in
bloodstream. That's
why many, many Americans are on
statins. But
it's now recognized that
high-cholesterol
foods don't necessarily
translate into higher
cholesterol in our blood.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So the
guidelines didn't
say eat less red meat. It said
go ahead and
supplement with more seafood and
other things.
Why?
ALLISON AUBREY: Well, I think
what the goal
is that one of the committee
members told
me that Americans don't want to
be told what
not to eat, what to avoid. They
want to be
told what they -- how to expand
their diet
or add more variety.
And so the words of the dietary
guidelines
and the people supporting
communication about
the new guidelines, the word
they're using
is shift. The idea is to shift
away from meat
and try alternative sources of
protein, so
anything from seafood to nuts to
beans.
And, implicitly, that might mean
eating less
red meat, if you're eating more
of these other
sources of protein. It's a
little bit controversial.
The committee that helped advise
the administration
on what should be in these
guidelines came
out last year and said, hey, we
think you
should tell Americans to eat
less red meat.
But, in the end, that's not
what's in their
dietary guidelines.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And what are
nutritionists
or experts in this think as
well?
ALLISON AUBREY: Well, there is
some criticism,
I have to say, today.
I have spoken to several top
nutrition researchers
who say a limit on red meat
really should
have been put into the
guidelines. Otherwise,
Americans might just be confused
by this message
about shifting. And I think the
range of opinion
goes something like this.
Some people say, well, if you
are nudging
Americans to eat a little bit
less, that's
enough. The other point of view
is Americans
need to be told like, hey, there
is too much
red meat in your diet. They need
a specific
limit, but, again, that's not
there.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The fact that
these guidelines
come out only once every five
years, it almost
makes it a political document.
It's a statement
by an administration on what
they think the
government thinks people should
or shouldn't
eat, right?
ALLISON AUBREY: Well, I don't
see it so much
as a political document, as I
see it as kind
of a consensus report.
There is a lag factor here. You
pointed out
in the beginning that just now
do we have
a recommendation to limit sugar.
Your grandmother
could have told you that too
much sugar is
bad for you. And what you have
to understand
is that the way this process
works is that,
every five years, the Department
of Health
and Human Services and the U.S.
Department
of Agriculture assign this
expert committee
to review all the new evidence.
They pore over all of the
nutrition science
and they try to come up with a
consensus.
So, for instance, five years
ago, we knew
that sugar would rot your teeth,
but we didn't
know that 22 teaspoons of sugar
a day would
lead to an increased risk of
heart disease
or diabetes.
And so it takes a while for a
body of evidence
to lead scientists to say, aha,
we need a
clear recommendation here, so a
bit of a lag
time.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Allison Aubrey
of NPR, thanks so much for
joining us.
ALLISON AUBREY: Thanks for
having me.
GWEN IFILL: Now: the power of
altruism, not
just for those on the receiving
end, but also
how it provides physical and
emotional benefits
for the giver.
Economics correspondent Paul
Solman takes
a look, part of our weekly
segment Making
Sense, which airs every Thursday
on the "NewsHour."
WOMAN: I want you to meet my
friend Monkey.
Hello. Do you want to say hello?
PAUL SOLMAN: It is better to
give than to
receive. You may have heard it
when you were
about this age, or even in the
past few weeks,
when you bought out the entire
Christmas list.
WOMAN: Look, Monkey has a bowl
just like you.
You don't have any treats and
neither does
Monkey.
PAUL SOLMAN: But better for
whom? A behavioral
economics experiment has come up
with a provocative
answer.
WOMAN: I'm going to give them
all to you.
PAUL SOLMAN: Psychology
professor Elizabeth
Dunn designed this test to see
if even very
young kids could be happier
giving than receiving.
ELIZABETH DUNN, University of
British Columbia:
We worked with kind of the
toddler equivalent
of gold, namely goldfish
crackers. We gave
them a bunch goldfish for
themselves, and
then we gave them the chance to
give some
of these goldfish away to a
puppet named Monkey.
WOMAN: Will you give one to
Monkey? Yes?
CHILD: Yes.
PAUL SOLMAN: Dunn recorded
dozens of kids
doing this, then had students
who knew nothing
about the experiment compare the
facial expressions
when receiving and when giving.
When were
the kids happiest?
ELIZABETH DUNN: What we see is
that the toddlers
are happier when they're getting
the chance
to give the goldfish away, as
compared to
when they're getting the
goldfish for themselves.
PAUL SOLMAN: Much happier. So,
it's no surprise
that, with fellow happiness
scholar Michael
Norton, Dunn has written a book:
"Happy Money:
The Science of Happier
Spending."
It features five key takeaways.
ELIZABETH DUNN: Well, if you
want to use money
to buy happiness, we suggest you
should buy
experiences, you should buy
time, you should
make it a treat, you should pay
now and consume
later, and you should invest in
others.
PAUL SOLMAN: Invest in others,
the most surprising
finding of the five and one
which regularly
elicits skepticism, says
business school professor
Michael Norton.
MICHAEL NORTON, Harvard
University: A lot
of people, when we talk about
the fact that
giving makes you happy and
you're better off
giving than spending your money
on yourself,
will argue back, first off, that
we're crazy,
and, secondly, that that can't
be true, because
I don't really know what you
like, but I definitely
know what I like. And so, just
by definition,
I'm better at spending my money
on myself
and getting happiness than you,
because I
don't know everything about you.
WOMAN: Can panda have one? Yes.
Can one go
in his bowl?
MICHAEL NORTON: It's just not
what we see
in this study. So, even with
these toddlers,
who are 2 years old, even if
it's the case
that their parents are making
them give in
order to be a nice person,
they're smiling.
And smiling is something that
just comes out.
It's not something that you can
control very
well.
PAUL SOLMAN: And it's not just
toddlers. Dunn
also designed an experiment for
grownups.
ELIZABETH DUNN: We went out on
our campus
at the University of British
Columbia and
just walked up to people in the
morning and
handed them either a $5 or a $5
bill, which
we asked them to spend by the
end of the day.
And there was a catch. We told
some people
they had to spend the money on
themselves.
We told some people they had to
spend the
money on somebody else.
And what we found was that
people who'd been
randomly assigned to spend this
money on somebody
else felt better by the end of
the day than
people who'd been assigned to
spend that same
small amount of money on
themselves.
PAUL SOLMAN: A small experiment,
small money,
small number of subjects. And
Canadians are
unusually nice, eh?
ELIZABETH DUNN: So, we conducted
parallel
experiments in Canada, Uganda,
South Africa,
as well as collecting
correlational data from
around the world. And what we
saw was that
in poor and rich countries
alike, people felt
happier when they had the chance
to spend
money on others rather than
themselves.
PAUL SOLMAN: Best of all,
though, is the chance
to spend it on others you can
actually see.
MICHAEL NORTON: So, a lot of the
charitable
giving that a lot of us do, we
write a check
and it goes somewhere. And we
can show that
that does make you happier, but
think of the
difference between the check
goes into the
ether and you don't know what
happened with
the money, compared to you
really tangibly
see the impact that your money
had on another
person.
PAUL SOLMAN: Or even just the
imaginary effect
on a stuffie.
WOMAN: Can you give one to
giraffe?
PAUL SOLMAN: But are all kids
equally altruistic?
Is there a normal distribution,
a kind of
bell curve, some give a lot and
are really
happy, some are not happy at
all, most in
the middle?
ELIZABETH DUNN: It's actually
surprisingly
consistent. So, most of the
toddlers are happier
when they're giving than when
they're getting
the treats for themselves.
PAUL SOLMAN: So what's that red
spot on the
brain?
ABIGAIL MARSH, Georgetown
University: So,
the red mark in the brain is an
area of functional
activation in the region called
the amygdala.
PAUL SOLMAN: Georgetown
University psychology
Professor Abigail Marsh measures
the brain
activity of what she terms
extraordinary altruists,
people who donated a kidney to a
total stranger.
ABIGAIL MARSH: The amygdala is
part of what's
called the mammalian brain. It's
involved
with emotions like fear and it's
in social processes, like, to
some extent,
love and caring. This is an
image from a brain
scan that we did looking at
differences in
amygdala activation in people
who had donated
a kidney to a stranger relative
to people
who have not.
PAUL SOLMAN: Her research, she
says, was unequivocal:
The altruistic amygdalas were
about 8 percent
larger than normal.
ABIGAIL MARSH: Altruistic kidney
donors showed
increased activation in the
amygdala when
they saw somebody in distress,
which is the
opposite of people at the other
end of the
compassion spectrum,
psychopaths, who show
reduced activation in the
amygdala when they
see somebody in distress.
PAUL SOLMAN: And in one study of
psychopaths'
brains:
ABIGAIL MARSH: Their amygdalas
were shown
to be 17 to 18 percent smaller
than that of
controls, so this also seems to
be related
to having lower levels of
concern or compassion
for other people.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, Dr. Seuss was
right. The
Grinch's heart is really three
sizes too small?
ABIGAIL MARSH: Yes, I do use
that analogy
sometimes. In fact, maybe it was
his amygdala
that was too small.
PAUL SOLMAN: So when people find
that giving
is more gratifying than
receiving, what's
going on?
ABIGAIL MARSH: Everything I
think we have
learned from our research is
consistent with
the idea that it is a good thing
and beneficial
for a person to be giving and
generous to
other people.
WOMAN: Do you want to give the
last treat
to you or to Monkey?
PAUL SOLMAN: One last
experiment: the effect
of giving on blood pressure.
Professor Dunn
gave adults over 65 with high
blood pressure
pill bottles filled with money.
ELIZABETH DUNN: We asked them to
take home
these pill bottles and open them
on specified
days over the course of three
weeks. Now,
inside each bottle was actually
$20. And if
you look at the label, there are
some instructions
about what you should be doing
with that money.
PAUL SOLMAN: Please spend this
money on someone
else by 4:30 p.m. at the date
listed below.
ELIZABETH DUNN: Other people got
pill bottles
that looked very similar, except
the instruction
is a little bit different.
PAUL SOLMAN: Please spend this
money on yourself.
ELIZABETH DUNN: So, everybody
was pretty happy
getting pill bottles filled with
money. But
when we measured their blood
pressure, both
before and after the study, what
we found
was that people who got these
pill bottles
telling them to spend the money
on somebody
else showed a significant
reduction in their
blood pressure from the
beginning to the end
of the study.
In contrast, people who got this
pill bottle
who were told to spend the money
on themselves
just showed no change from the
beginning to
the end.
PAUL SOLMAN: Now, Dunn insists
we issue this
warning. No matter how generous
the hypertense
among you become after watching
this story,
please do not give up your blood
pressure
medication just yet.
But if you want a quick ticket
to happiness,
it seems, whether your stash is
in gold or
goldfish, give it away. You will
be happy
you did.
From Washington, D.C., and
Boston, this is
economics correspondent Paul
Solman, happily
sharing this news with you, the
"PBS NewsHour"
audience.
GWEN IFILL: As the Supreme Court
considers
yet another major affirmative
action case,
tonight's Race Matters
conversation focuses
on what happens before students
get to college
when they grow up in mostly
segregated inner-city
schools.
"PBS NewsHour" special
correspondent Charlayne
Hunter-Gault is reporting a
year-long series
on solutions to the questions
raised by race.
Tonight, she talks with Pedro
Noguera, a professor
at the University of California,
Los Angeles,
who has found what can work.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Despite
an historic
Supreme Court ruling some 61
years ago outlawing
segregated schools, today, huge
numbers of
students remain in separate and
unequal schools,
most in inner cities.
But it doesn't have to be that
way, says Pedro
Noguera, director of the Center
for Study
of School Transformation at
UCLA. I met him
in New York, where he was about
to speak with
a group of educators.
Professor Noguera, thank you so
much for joining
us.
Sixty-one years after separate
and unequal
was ruled illegal, you say it's
still happening.
Why?
PEDRO NOGUERA, University of
California, Los
Angeles: Well, it's happening
because the
courts have basically made it
very difficult
to continue to pursue
integration.
And that's after we made quite a
bit of progress
in this country, especially in
the South,
but now we know that schools in
the North
and the West are more segregated
now than
they were 30 years ago. So, we
now find ourselves
in a situation where not only
are schools
increasingly racially separate,
but we're
also concentrating the poorest
children in
schools that have the fewest
resources.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Why?
PEDRO NOGUERA: I would say it's
a combination
of lack of investment in schools
that serve
poor children and the fact that
we have no
longer the political will.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: But you
have argued
that separate schools play a
role in perpetuating
inequality, not just in the
schools, but in
general.
PEDRO NOGUERA: They do.
They do, because separate has
still been unequal
in education. The racially
separate schools,
even when the schools do a good
job, the learning
opportunities you have a child
will influence
the kind of college you go into,
the kind
of profession you have access
to, the kind
of income you earn.
And so if we really are
interested in creating
a society that's more equal and
less characterized
by racial divisions, then we
need to put more
investment in education and
leveling the playing
field and integrating our
schools.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: There
have been schools
that have started that are
supposed to be
making up for these disparities,
like the
charter schools and magnet
schools.
What impact are those kinds of
schools having,
though, on public education?
PEDRO NOGUERA: Well, in fact,
many of the
charter schools are even more
segregated than
the public schools.
Middle-class families,
particularly middle-class
African-American families, want
integrated
schools for their kids.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Not long
ago, Professor
Raj Chetty told me about an
experiment that
took young people out of
segregated communities
into more integrated
communities. But even
he said that, while those were
successful,
you needed to fix those within
the community.
Now, you have some solutions and
some examples
where that works.
PEDRO NOGUERA: Yes, and --
because we do have
examples.
Tulsa, Oklahoma, for example,
here, you have
a city, a very red state, the
best high school
in the city, Booker T.
Washington, is 50 percent
black, and it is a school that
the entire
city looks up to. That should be
a model for
the country.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: But why
is it a school
that everybody looks up to?
PEDRO NOGUERA: Because of the
quality of education
provided.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: You just
said that
there wasn't the will in these
communities.
So what happens in that case?
PEDRO NOGUERA: Well, Tulsa --
it's interesting,
because Tulsa has a very ugly
history. In
1924, there was the race riots
there, where
the black community was burned
to the ground,
Greenwood.
And there has been an effort,
though, in Tulsa
to invest in early childhood
education. Every
child gets quality early
childhood education.
Every school is a community
school.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: How did
it get to
that point?
PEDRO NOGUERA: Good question.
John Hope Franklin, a great
historian, was
a leader in the effort in
promoting the idea
of reparations for black folks
in Tulsa. After
he died, his students...
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: He was a
pre-Ta-Nehisi
Coates?
(LAUGHTER)
PEDRO NOGUERA: That's right.
And his students, white students
from Duke
University, took up the effort
to rebuild
Greenwood after he died. There
is a big monument
in Tulsa to John Hope Franklin
built by his
former students, most of whom
are affluent
whites in Tulsa.
So, this is an important part of
the history
too. It's, we make our greatest
advances when
it's not just African-Americans
that are pushing
the issue, when whites, when
Latinos, when
Asians, when the mosaic of
America recognizes
that we can be a better nation
if we are working
together, if we are serving each
other's interests.
And, you know, there are others
like it in
other parts of the country that
are showing
us that you don't have to wait
until we solve
the problem of poverty or
inequality. You
can do a lot in education now
that would help
to move our society forward.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: But one
of the things
you have talked about is how
there are needs
beyond just the basic education,
particularly
for urban students, and I guess
you mean predominantly
African-American or children of
color.
PEDRO NOGUERA: Well, absolutely.
There are many children in this
country -- because
we have the highest child
poverty rates of
all advanced nations; 22 percent
of kids in
this country come from families
at or below
the poverty level. So, we have a
lot of kids
coming to school who are hungry,
who don't
have adequate housing, whose
have basic needs
not being met.
Schools serving those children
need other
resources. They need social
workers. They
need psychologists. They might
need a food
program. They might need health
workers on
site in order for those kids to
be able to
concentrate on education and for
their teachers
to concentrate on teaching them.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT:
Brockton, Massachusetts,
you gave an example.
PEDRO NOGUERA: What Brockton
shows us -- it's
the largest high school in the
state, 4,200
students -- that by focusing on
the student
needs, you can, even without
moving them,
create a school that's the pride
of the community.
Brockton is one of the only
urban high schools
in the state of Massachusetts
that gets a
level one rating. And that's
because over
one-third of their senior class
gets the highest
possible test score in the
state. And the
demographics of the kids who get
that score
match the demographics of the
school.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: And how
did it get
that way?
PEDRO NOGUERA: They focus on
literacy.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: They
who?
PEDRO NOGUERA: The school. They
make sure
that every teacher, regardless
of the subject
they teach, is a teacher of
literacy, whether
it be science, or math, or art,
or music.
Literacy is what's promoted,
because they
understand that strong literacy
skills, reading,
writing, speaking, is the key to
a strong
education.
And they have stuck with that
for the last
15 years or more. And it shows
in the results.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: How
committed do you
think America is to maintaining
public education?
PEDRO NOGUERA: I think we're at
a crossroads.
But I try to remind people the
public education
system is the only system that
accepts all
children. If we don't educate
our children
well, we're all in trouble. The
retirees -- and
we have a growing number of
retirees in America,
most of whom are white -- are
going to be
increasingly dependent on a
younger, more
diverse work force to support
them in their
retirement.
So, even if they really care
about the kids,
if they just care about
themselves, they should
be concerned about the future of
public education.
People who are concerned about
their property
values should be concerned about
public education,
because the quality of the
schools affects
the value of your property.
So we're all in this together.
And that's
what it takes, is, we need
leadership that
gets people to see it's in our
interests as
a country to invest in our
children, to invest
in our schools. And we haven't
had that for
many years.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Except
in the places
you mentioned.
PEDRO NOGUERA: Yes. At the local
level you,
see it.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: So, it's
doable?
PEDRO NOGUERA: It's doable. It
is absolutely
doable.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: And
you're optimistic?
PEDRO NOGUERA: Cautiously
optimistic.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT:
Professor Noguera,
thank you for joining us.
PEDRO NOGUERA: Thank you,
Charlayne.
GWEN IFILL: Netflix has
announced its video
streaming service will soon be
available globally,
leading to a wider audience for
its movies
and original programming.
There is no bigger hit on
Netflix right now
than "Making a Murderer," the
story of a brutal
case in Wisconsin that raises
troubling questions
about our criminal justice
system.
William Brangham has the story.
And a warning: If you have not
seen the series,
like me, there are some spoilers
ahead.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: "Making a
Murderer" is the
new blockbuster true crime
series on Netflix.
In 10 hour-long episodes,
filmmakers Laura
Ricciardi and Moira Demos tell
the story of
Steven Avery, a Wisconsin man
who spent 18
years locked up for a sexual
assault he didn't
commit.
But, after his release, Avery
was arrested
for a new crime, the gruesome
murder of a
young photographer named Teresa
Halbach.
STEVEN AVERY, Suspect: I didn't
do it.
MAN: Who did it?
STEVEN AVERY: I don't know.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The series
documents, in
incredible detail, the
investigation and prosecution
of Avery, and his young nephew,
Brendan Dassey.
Both men were found guilty, are
now serving
life sentences for Halbach's
death.
The series raises some troubling
questions
about how investigators and
prosecutors pursued
the case. For example, was
then-16-year-old
Brendan Dassey coerced into
making a false
confession?
MAN: Who shot her in the head?
BRENDAN DASSEY, Suspect: He did.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Was crucial
evidence linking
Avery to the crime in fact
planted by police?
And were police trying to frame
him because
Avery was suing them for $36
million over
his earlier wrongful conviction
in the sexual
assault case?
"Making a Murderer" was released
in its entirety
just before Christmas, and it's
quickly become
a runaway success for Netflix.
Tens of thousands
of viewers are so convinced of
Steven Avery's
and Brendan Dassey's innocence
that they have
signed online petitions to
President Obama
and to the governor of
Wisconsin, demanding
the men be pardoned immediately.
Yesterday, I spoke with the
filmmakers, Ricciardi
and Demos, who spent 10 years
documenting
this story.
So, what was it that first
attracted you two
to this story?
MOIRA DEMOS, Filmmaker, "Making
a Murderer":
Here was a man who had been
clearly failed
by our justice system in the
mid-'80s, and
here he was now thrown back into
the system,
and we were in a position where
we could follow
that case as it unfolded.
It's not really about the
question of, did
Steven do this or he did not do
this, but
really, can we trust, we can
rely on these
verdicts? And what we felt like
that offered
and what Steven's experiences
offered us was
this amazing window into the
system.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The prosecutor
in this murder
case, Ken Kratz, has been on a
full-bore media
blitz recently, denouncing the
series, saying
it's extremely misleading, and
rejecting the
allegation that Steven Avery was
framed.
KEN KRATZ, Prosecutor: This
wasn't a documentary
at all. This was a defense
piece. It was generated
by and for Steven Avery by his
defense team.
If some of the evidence that was
selected,
I would call it handpicked or
cherry-picked,
over an 18-month period, didn't
fit with the
narrative, didn't fit with the
conclusion
that Mr. Avery was the product
of a conspiracy
or some planted evidence, it's
my belief that
the filmmakers just wouldn't
include that
information.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Kratz argues
that several
crucial pieces of evidence were
either glossed
over by the Netflix series or
left out altogether,
for example, the fact that
Steven Avery called
the murder victim several times
on the day
that she disappeared, or the
fact that Steven
Avery's own DNA showed up on the
victim's
car keys, on the hood of her
car, and inside
her car.
I mean, the prosecutor says that
you guys,
the filmmakers, didn't include
certain pieces
of evidence because -- quote --
"You didn't
want to muddy up a perfectly
good conspiracy
movie with what actually
happened."
MOIRA DEMOS: I guess I would say
he didn't
want to muddy up a perfectly
good prosecution
with what actually happened.
I mean, we included the evidence
that Kratz
himself spoke about in press
conferences as
being the most damning pieces of
evidence
of Avery's guilt, the most
significant physical
pieces evidence. We were
following his lead
of what to include. And, of
course, we couldn't
include everything from a
six-week trial.
And now the things he is saying
are the proof
of Steven's guilt were not the
things he was
hanging his case on.
LAURA RICCIARDI, Filmmaker,
"Making a Murderer":
Well, I have said before that we
had no horse
in this race. We -- whether
Steven Avery committed
the horrible crime with which he
was charged
or not was of no consequence to
us as documentarians.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: "Making a
Murderer" is just
the latest in a recent line of
extremely popular
reexaminations of old criminal
cases.
Of course, there was "Serial,"
the blockbuster
podcast that, in its first
season, scrutinized
the late '90s conviction of a
Maryland teenager
for the murder of his
ex-girlfriend, and HBO's
popular miniseries "The Jinx,"
which looked
into the crimes of accused
murderer Robert
Durst.
Your series obviously comes in a
long line
of these true crime cases of
late. And I wonder
why they are so, so popular with
their audiences.
Why do you think these stories
speak to us
so strongly?
MOIRA DEMOS: I guess, not
always, but quite
often, true crime revolves a
marginal character,
an underdog, so to speak. And I
think most
people feel like underdogs in
their own lives.
And they can attach to that
feeling.
And then, of course, this is
true crime. This
is real life. And there is
something very
immediate about that. The fact
that people
can do something with the
feelings they have
after they watch, I think, just
adds a layer
of intensity to it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As for those
pardons, President
Obama can't do anything about
this, because
these weren't federal
convictions.
Wisconsin's governor, Scott
Walker, could
do something, but he recently
threw cold water
on the idea.
GOV. SCOTT WALKER (R),
Wisconsin: Just because
a documentary on TV says
something doesn't
mean that is actually what the
evidence shows.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For now,
Steven Avery remains
in jail for life. Brendan Dassey
won't be
eligible for parole until 2048.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham.
GWEN IFILL: Next, we turn to
Brief But Spectacular,
our occasional series where we
ask interesting
GWEN IFILL: Next, we turn to
Brief But Spectacular,
our occasional series where we
ask interesting
people to discuss their
passions.
Tonight, we hear from
illustrator and graphic
journalist Wendy Macnaughton,
who uses her
art to tell stories that might
otherwise be
overlooked.
WENDY MACNAUGHTON, Illustrator
and Graphic
Journalist: So, you guys are
pointing this
camera in my face, but the great
thing is,
I don't have a camera, but I can
still capture
you. So, don't -- don't move.
OK. Hold on.
Oh, you guys are going to hate
me for this.
you. So, don't -- don't move.
OK. Hold on.
Oh, you guys are going to hate
me for this.
Illustrated journalism is the
words that I
use to tell stories, real
stories using drawings
that I do mostly from life, and
the words
of the people who I speak with.
And I think, a lot of times,
with photography,
for example, if you will take a
camera and
you will start documenting
people, right,
you will start like this --
like, you put
a camera in somebody's face,
then they might
feel a little objectified.
But I'm not saying I do right
now. If you
have a sketchpad and you're
standing there
and you're drawing, instead of
people wondering,
like, what you're doing to them,
they're curious
about what you're doing. So,
people will come
up to me. It actually opens up
doors, whereas
other mediums might close them
down.
I have done stories on the
corners of Fifth
and Sixth Street in San
Francisco, two streets
incredibly different right next
to each other.
On Fifth Street, you have a ton
of people
who are shopping, who are going
to work, who
are working at tech companies.
And then you go over to Sixth
Street, and
you have people who have been
living there
for 20 years. It has got the
highest crime
rate in the city. It has one of
the highest
drug use rates in the city
there. It's just
a really, really tough place to
be. I think
it was a good metaphor for what
is going on
in San Francisco right now.
Last year, my aunt died, and it
was the first
time that I had ever been really
bedside while
somebody was dying. Drawing for
me is a way
of looking at things. It's like
an excuse
to look at something that I
might otherwise
be afraid of. So, I started
drawing my aunt
everyday.
The drawings turned out, I
think, beautiful.
And they're hard to look at, but
they're good
to look at. The same day she
died, I got a
call from this hospice
organization asking
if I would be the artist in
residence.
I went into the hospice project
thinking that
I was going to do a story about
the people
who were dying and it would be
focused on
the people who are dying, but
now I have drawn
for several months, and I can
tell it's not.
It's probably going to be more
about the volunteers,
the amazing volunteers who are
caring for
the people and their families.
I'm interested in the stories of
people who
don't get their stories told.
My name is Wendy Macnaughton.
And this is
my Brief But Spectacular take on
illustrated
documentary.
GWEN IFILL: You can find more of
our Brief
But Spectacular videos on our
Facebook page,
Facebook.com/NewsHour.
And on our own Web site, in
addition to teaching
children how to behave in real
life, parents
must now keep track of their
kids' behavior
online. A new survey shows
nearly all parents
have told their teen what's OK
to view and
share on social media. But
that's not the
only way they're keeping tabs.
Read more on
our home page, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And we turn again to our honor
roll of American
service personnel killed in Iraq
and Afghanistan.
We add them as their deaths are
made official
and photographs become
available. Here, in
silence, is one more.
Tune in later tonight on
"Charlie Rose": Leonardo
DiCaprio and director Alejandro
Inarritu discuss
their collaboration on their new
film, "The
Revenant."
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening
with David Brooks and David
Corn.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.